Tactics are used to customise the way in which the team plays. They allow the formation to be changed to accomodate different players, and the play styles can be changed to compete against varying opposition.

Formation

There are seven formations to choose from. By default, 4-4-2 is used which provides four defenders, four midfielders, and two attackers.

The formation can be changed however, typically to increase the number of defenders (useful against better teams than yourself), or increase the number of attackers (useful against worse teams than yourself).

Captain

The captain of the team is often seen as the manager on the pitch, and would typically be an older or better player than others in the squad.

Playing style

The playing style is used to customise how the team approaches the game. A 'Normal' approach sees the team balance out attack and defence as much as possible. When playing 'Attacking', the team will attack as much as possible, however chances may open up for the other team. Alternatively, a 'Defensive' approach will see your team take fewer risks and odds are that there will be fewer goals.

Tackling style

A 'Normal' tackling style will balance challenges as much as possible, and players will make as good a decision as possible about whether to make a challenge. 'Soft' tackling will result in fewer fouls and cards, but may result in the opposition getting more opportunity to score. When 'Hard' tackling is used, your team will tackle more at the risk of increasing the number of fouls and cards given.

Passing style

'Direct' passing is used to provide passes directly to a player and would typically be used by teams with players that are good at passing. 'Long Balls' are often used to quickly move the ball forward, and typically require players with good Passing and Set Piece attributes. 'Short' passes are useful for teams with players that have lower passing attributes as they are low-risk.

Win Bonus

As part of the contract, each player receives a win bonus already. However a team-wide win bonus can also be defined to further encourage wins. Typically, this is useful when your side is weaker than the opposition. The higher the win bonus, the more encouragement the team has to try and win the game.

Once the game has been played, the win bonus will be turned off. This is to prevent the win bonus being left on by accident.
